Hello.
Welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be solving the canceling issue.
So when we go to attack an enemy we walk up to it start attacking it.
Let me show you that we're still in this attacking behavior because if I click on my enemy and move
it around I'm gonna follow it around and keep bashing it Well I'm not bashing it yet but I could be.
But I can now cancel so if I click off with movement to somewhere else then I run away and I stop trying
to attack no matter what I do with this enemy move it around.
I'm not going to be following it anymore.
So let's dive in and see how we can get this kind of canceling behavior so the behavior we're seeing
at the moment is that if I go ahead and attack the combat cat to try and move away then I they have
to hold down to move away because otherwise it keeps trying to attack.
The reason for this as we saw when we saw that behavior in last.
But the reason we didn't see the reason is that whenever we have a target we are going to be trying
to do our attacking behavior in update.
And this isn't really what we want.
What we want is to be able to at some point cancel this target because it's set one time.
And so it never gets unset.
So let's create another public method in here.
Public void cancel and public void cancel is all is gonna do is set that target to No.
Now I'm gonna leave that as a challenge to you now to see if you can figure out how to get it to stop
attacking when we move.
So remember that combat triggers movement as well.
So you're going to have to if you want to I suggest you do this from the movement script the movement
scripts cancels the combat.
When you start moving.
But remember that combat also calls on the movement script.
So you need to differentiate between the movement that is kind of an action.
So you are clicking and it's like that's the movement action and it should take priority over other
actions like fighting or and the movement.
There's not an action that is being used kind of as a library from the combat.
So have it think about how you might differentiate those two and make it so that your combat is canceled
when you move as an action.
And just to make things really clear a little more guidance do this in the movie see a script.
And don't worry for now if you had to create a circular dependency back to the fighter we will fix that
in later lectures pause video and have a go OK.
Welcome back.
So let's give you a shot in the movie.
What I'm gonna do is I'm going to introduce a new method.
Public void Start.
Move.
Action.
And it's going to take the same input the destination as our move to move to is something that we're
going to be kind of setting doing every frame where as this start move action is going to be something
that we set off when we click.
So I'm going to just from there.
Call to move destination out the moment.
This isn't doing anything different so why do we bother.
Why have we introduced this complexity of another another function.
Well because if we go over into play a controller into the interact with movement script and have a
look at line 42 here then we want to replace that with the start action call instead.
And that means that now we have a distinction between when we have gotten action starting and when we're
just calling move to if we didn't do this you'd just seen an interesting problem.
But first let's try this get component combat likes.
No not combat fighter.
There we go and we're going to call on that.
But first I'm going to add a using by selecting the fighter type.
And again hitting control period windows check out on the Mac side what you got to do and then selecting
the first option of adding that using statement and a cool dot.
And again to call cancel.
So we're canceling fighting.
Before we even start moving all the time.
Naturally.
Okay.
Now what was I.
So that's the difference basically when we start move action we cancel fighting.
Otherwise we don't.
Which is just as well because the fighter calls that.
So if we were every time we were fighting we canceled fighting it wouldn't make any sense.
So that's what we're doing.
But notice I did something a little naughty there.
I did a using statement I included a using statement just like that.
Snap my fingers and automatically added this.
This is a bit dangerous.
Doing it like that because now what we've got is a circular dependency cause.
Movement now depends on combat and combat.
As we already knew.
Depends on movement.
And we know second dependencies are nasty.
So we're going to be fixing that in the next video.
For now.
We'll deal with it.
But just so you know.
Okay.
So this should do the trick.
Let's hop over in to the game and see what we got.
We hit play and got to the capsule and go away from the capsule and indeed I start to move just good
but I'm noticed there is a bit of an issue here.
Down here I've got this null reference thing.
So let's see if we can fix that no reference what's it referring to.
He is referring to a hand.
This is in range.
We're trying to calculate it with the target position but if we don't have a target because we canceled
it for example this isn't gonna work.
So one way that we can solve this is by moving this into a method so I can do this with a little light
bulb extractor method automatically named it really well and I can even inline this variable meaning
that I replace the one usage of this variable with the actual calculation that that variables doing.
Now what's gonna happen here is we've got something called a shortcut operator or short circuit operator
in fact this double and operator.
So let's take a bit of a deep dive into short circuit operators.
What are they how do they work.
Well a short circuit operator can just take a form like this.
We've got a function on the left that's going to return a boolean a function on the right which is also
going to return a boolean.
Now this is how a computer is going to evaluate this boolean expression how it's going to evaluate this
operator first of all it has to work out what the thing on the left is.
So we'll call first function and first function for example in this case returns true.
So now we know it's true.
And second function.
So then we have to evaluate the second function to work out what our overall boolean result is going
to be.
So we evaluate the second function turns out to be false.
So we know that true and false means that is false true.
But for and to work they both need to be true.
So it's going to be false.
Now slightly different situation.
What if we had called the first function and it had returned false.
Do we even need to call second function.
Well no actually because the end function if either of the two things is false then it will evaluate
to false.
So without even calling the second function we know that the result of this short circuit operator is
false.
So that's what it means to be a short circuit operator.
It doesn't even evaluate the thing on the right.
If we already know the value by the time we've evaluated the thing on the left.
So one more example of a short circuit operator actually is the or operator with the double line.
In this case it works slightly differently.
So we evaluate our first function on the left and say it returns true this time.
Now you might be tempted to say well it's going to have to go and evaluate the thing over on the right
like we did with the short circuit and operator.
Well no actually because if you think about it.
If we know that something is true on either side of an OR.
Then what do we know about the result.
We know that it must be true already.
So in this case it works in the opposite way with an oar operator.
And that is to say that if it is false on the left then it has to evaluate the thing on the right.
If it's true on the left then it doesn't have to validate the thing on the right and the opposite is
true for the end operator.
So let's see the short circuit operator in practice how does it work if our target is indeed no.
Then we know that this thing here target not null is going to be false because the and operator requires
both things to be true for it to be true it already knows that if this first thing is false then the
whole thing must be false so it doesn't even bother to call the function get is in range which is perfect
because if we did call get is in range when we've got Target now then we're going to get that now reference
error.
So hopefully that should fix and no reference error.
Let's give it a shot.
Hit play and go ahead.
Out to the combat and click away.
But now we have a different issue which is the only moves when we're holding down the mouse.
Why is that.
Why is it only moving when we hold down the mouse.
Reason being is that when we don't have a target we always call stop.
Even if Well basically if we don't have a target who was calling stop which is not great for the mover
because if we're trying to do a move action and it's currently basically constantly tallying it every
frame to stop then we don't really get anywhere.
And the fact that we get anywhere by holding is a bit of a fluke to be honest.
So if we go into update and say look if we don't have a target.
So if Target is no then we aren't going to do any of this behavior at all.
So we'll return early.
And that would also have solved our get in is in range problem.
But you know extracting into a method is not a bad thing anyway.
So we've got if the targets now return early we're not going to stop or move if we are not essentially
fighting but if we are fighting then we've got two options we're either in range in which case we stop
moving and we'll probably play some attack animations or we're not in range and we're going to move
towards our target.
So hopefully this brings us to a more solid behavior.
Click on the target moves to it click away from the target moves away from it.
And that seems to be working quite nicely.
So now the only problem we've got is that circular dependency and we're going to look at that in the
next lecture.
So I will see you there.